README.md, before:

# Sparse merkle tree

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/sparse-merkle-tree.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/sparse-merkle-tree)
[Docs](https://docs.rs/sparse-merkle-tree)

An optimized sparse merkle tree.

| size | proof size | update | get | merkle proof | verify proof |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2n + log(n) | log(n) | log(n) | log(n) | log(n) | log(n) |

Features:

* Multi-leaves existence / non-existence merkle proof
* Customizable hash function
* Storage backend agnostic
* Rust `no_std` support

This article describes algorithm of this data structure [An optimized compacted sparse merkle tree](SMT.md)

## Construction

A sparse merkle tree is a perfectly balanced tree contains `2 ^ N` leaves:

``` txt
# N = 256 sparse merkle tree
height:
                   0
                /     \
255            0        1

.............................

           /   \          /  \
1         0     1        0    1
         / \   / \      / \   / \
0       0   1 0  1 ... 0   1 0   1
       0x00..00 0x00..01   ...   0x11..11
```

The above graph demonstrates a sparse merkle tree with `2 ^ 256` leaves, which can mapping every possible `H256` value into leaves. The height of the tree is `256`, from top to bottom, we denote `0` for each left branch and denote `1` for each right branch, so we can get a 256 bits path, which also can represent in `H256`, we use the path as the key of leaves, the most left leaf's key is `0x00..00`, and the next key is `0x00..01`, the most right key is `0x11..11`.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Update readme about blake2b switching

README.md, after:

# Sparse merkle tree

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/sparse-merkle-tree.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/sparse-merkle-tree)
[Docs](https://docs.rs/sparse-merkle-tree)

An optimized sparse merkle tree.

| size | proof size | update | get | merkle proof | verify proof |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2n + log(n) | log(n) | log(n) | log(n) | log(n) | log(n) |

Features:

* Multi-leaves existence / non-existence merkle proof
* Customizable hash function
* Storage backend agnostic
* Rust `no_std` support

This article describes algorithm of this data structure [An optimized compacted sparse merkle tree](SMT.md)

## Construction

A sparse merkle tree is a perfectly balanced tree contains `2 ^ N` leaves:

``` txt
# N = 256 sparse merkle tree
height:
                   0
                /     \
255            0        1

.............................

           /   \          /  \
1         0     1        0    1
         / \   / \      / \   / \
0       0   1 0  1 ... 0   1 0   1
       0x00..00 0x00..01   ...   0x11..11
```

The above graph demonstrates a sparse merkle tree with `2 ^ 256` leaves, which can mapping every possible `H256` value into leaves. The height of the tree is `256`, from top to bottom, we denote `0` for each left branch and denote `1` for each right branch, so we can get a 256 bits path, which also can represent in `H256`, we use the path as the key of leaves, the most left leaf's key is `0x00..00`, and the next key is `0x00..01`, the most right key is `0x11..11`.

## Blake2b-rs or Blake2b-ref

`Blake2b-rs` uses a C backend and generally offers higher performance, while `Blake2b-ref` is a pure Rust implementation that tends to provide better portability and compatibility.

**Feature flag:** `use-blake2b-rs` (enabled by default).
When this feature is enabled, the crate uses `Blake2b-rs`. If you disable `use-blake2b-rs`, it falls back to `Blake2b-ref`.

## License

MIT
